Why did I create C++?
I needed a language like it and it didn't exist.
I was trying to build a system which might very well become the first Unix clusters,
something like that, and for that I needed to manipulate hardware,
I needed to do memory managers, process schedulers, networking,
interfaces and such and then I needed to abstract up,
so that you can say this bit runs over here and that
bits run over there and they communicate in this way.
What's a bit? You have to define it,
that's where the classes come in and they communicate in some way,
you can't just poke at memory.
You have to have a protocol and they have to follow it, that's another class.
So that's where it came from and I looked at what languages was available at
the time and C was
a good candidate for a really great language for dealing with low level stuff,
hadn't been as popular as it became later,
but anyway the support was great in hours on
the same corridor as Brian Kernighan and Dennis Richie.
The other language that could handle the top stuff was similar,
could handle the abstraction,
the only problem was it was far far too slow.
Far far as many tens of times too slow and so I
took the class concept from Simula put it into C and the rest is history as they say.